Add documentation for new external storage system (#6914)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/user_manual/working_with_vector/attribute_table.rst

      CONSTRAINT documents_pkey PRIMARY KEY (fid)
   );

.. index:: External Storage, WebDAV
.. _external_storage:

Storing and fetching an external ressource
==========================================

|322|

> A field may target a ressource stored on an external storage system. Attribute forms can be configured
> so they act as a client to an external storage system in order to store and fetch those ressources, on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A field may target a resource stored on an external storage system. Attribute forms can be configured
so they act as a client to an external storage system in order to store and fetch those resources, on
```

users demand, directly from the forms.

.. _external_storage_configuration:

Configuring an external storage
-------------------------------

In order to setup an external storage, user has to first configure it from the vector
:ref:`attribute form properties<edit_widgets>` and select the :guilabel:`Attachment` widget.

.. _figure_external_storage_configuration:

.. figure:: img/external_storage_configuration.png
   :align: center

   Editing a WebDAV external storage for a given field

From the :guilabel:`Attachment` widget, user has to first select the attachment type among these options:

* :guilabel:`Select Existing File` : The ressource is already existing. When

>   user selects a ressource, no store operation is achieved, only the

Author: > Reformulation à proposer

I rephrased this way : 

```
* :guilabel:`Select Existing File`: The target URL already exists. When
  you select a resource, no store operation is achieved, the field is simply updated with the URL.
```

  URL is updated.

* :guilabel:`Simple Copy` : The ressource is copied on a file disk destination (which could be a local

>   or network shared file system)

Author: > And the file that is actually attached to the field is the copy, right? They use the url/path of the copy? I think this kind of information will make this point on pair with the first one

Yes. I rephrased this way

```
Stores a copy of the resource on a file disk destination
  (which could be a local or network shared file system) and the field is updated with the path to
  the copy.
```

  
* :guilabel:`WebDAV External Storage` : The ressource is pushed on an HTTP server supporting the
  `WebDAV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebDAV>`_ protocol. (`Nextcloud <https://nextcloud.com/>`_,

>   `Pydio <https://pydio.com/>`_ or others file hosting software supports this protocol).

Author: It was my intention at first, but then I used a map and figured out recently that the options were in disorder. I'll try to fix this before release

>   `Pydio <https://pydio.com/>`_ or others file hosting software supports this protocol).

Author: PR to fix this https://github.com/qgis/QGIS/pull/45325

Then, he has to set up the :guilabel:`Store URL` parameter, which provides the URL to be used when a new
ressource needs to be stored. It's possible to set up an expression using the
:ref:`data defined override widget<data_defined>` in order to have specific values according to
feature attributes.

> The special value **@selected_file_path** could be used in that expression and represent the absolute

Author: > Also, could you add it to the list of variables in https://docs.qgis.org/testing/en/docs/user_manual/working_with_vector/functions_list.html#variables

Done

file path of the user selected file (using the file selector or drag'n drop).
   
.. note::

   Using the **WebDAV** external storage, if the URL ends with a "/", it is considered as a folder and
   the selected file name will be appended to get the final URL.

If the external storage system needs to, it's possible to configure an
:ref:`authentication <authentication>`.
 
.. _external_storage_use:

Using an external storage
-------------------------

Once configured, use can select a local file using the button :guilabel:`...`. According to

> what has been configured as :ref:`Type <external_storage_configuration>`, the file

Author: > I'm a bit lost here. I assume we are in the feature form, right?

Yes. Your sentence is more clear.

will be stored on the external storage system (except if :guilabel:`Select existing file` has been
selected) and the field will be updated with the new resource URL.

.. _figure_external_storage_store:

> .. figure:: img/external_storage_store.png

Author: In fact, the icon is in the **Integrated document viewer** widget. It's a different widget from the one above (the qgsexternalstoragefilewidget with `...`, cancel button, progress bar and filename line edit). And It's optionnal (depends if you enable it from the configuration.

The icon is here to inform we cannot render the ressource because it fails, or it doesn't exist. To me it's important that it stays below the qgsexternalstoragefilewidget, but maybe we can find a better way to display it. I'm open to suggestions

> .. figure:: img/external_storage_store.png

Reviewer: OK. I understand they can't stay on the same line.
And the "integrated doc viewer" is supposed to display the image, right? How about render it bigger, as a preview widget, and fill it with the warning icon or our Q (maybe in black-and-white?) ;)
Feel free also to scratch these suggestions 😄

   :align: center

   Storing a file to a WebDAV external storage

Using the |cancel| :sup:`Cancel` button, user can cancel the storing process.

It's possible to configure a viewer so the ressource will be automatically fetched from the external

> storage system and displayed directly below the URL.

Author: > How? Are you referring to the "Integrated doc viewer" or is it something else? And is this not possible for non external storage system?

Yes, it's the Integrated document viewer. I added it on the sentence so reader could understand.

> And is this not possible for non external storage system?

Yes, even if it works slightly differently, it's the same behavior for the user. I thought it was relevant to make it more explicit that it's possible. But I can remove it if you think it's best.

.. note::

   User can also achieve the same result it he drags'n drops a file on the whole attachment

>    widget.

Author: > What's achieved this way:

It's "to store a file". The note was not at the good place (besides the if/it &/and issue). I fixed this
